---
layout: post
title: Tools Detector
permalink: /Tools/Detector/
---

__FORCETOC__

flowrouter.py
=============

“flowrouter.py” serves as a drop in replacement for [DFROUTER](/DFROUTER "wikilink") which calculates a set of routes and traffic flows from given detectors and their measurements on a given network (option ).

Flowrouter works by solving a maximum flow problem in the given network assuming the measured flows as capacity. The input data is by default aggregated over the whole file but can be split into intervals by setting . Example call for hourly aggregation:

`/tools/detector/flowrouter.py -n input_net.net.xml -d detectors.xml -f flows20140520.csv -o routes.xml -e flows.xml -i 60`

Detectors which have no data (in the specified interval) or are permanently zero are ignored by default. To include them into the calculations use .

For additional parameters call

`/tools/detector/flowrouter.py --help`

Input files
-----------

The traffic flow file is described in the corresponding [DFROUTER documentation](/Demand/Routes_from_Observation_Points#Computing_Flows "wikilink").

As detector file input you can either use

-   The detector file as described in the [DFROUTER documentation](/Demand/Routes_from_Observation_Points#Computing_Detector_Types "wikilink")
-   A detector file with types as [generated by DFROUTER](/Demand/Routes_from_Observation_Points#Computing_Detector_Types "wikilink")
-   a file with [induction loop definitions](/Simulation/Output/Induction_Loops_Detectors_(E1) "wikilink")

When loading a detector file without information or setting the option , all network edges will be re-classified as *sources*, *sinks* or *in-between*.

-   any edge without incoming edges will be marked as a source
-   any edge without outgoing edges will be marked as a sink
-   any edge that is neither source or sink is *in-between*

Generating vehicles with additional parameters
----------------------------------------------

With the option , additional parameters can be given to the generated vehicles (note, usage of the quoting characters).

` ``/tools/detector/flowrouter.py -n input_net.net.xml --params=`“`departLane=\`”`best\" departSpeed=\`“`max\`”` type=\`“`myType`”`"`

This would insert the vehicle with high speed on a reasonable lane. The vehicles would be defined with type *myType* (which could also be the name of a typeDistribution).

Ambiguity
---------

In many cases, the solutions for a given input is not unique. By setting the option , the flow is assigned in multiple iterations which causes flows to be distributed more evenly so that all routes are used in proportion to the incoming and outgoing flows (as done by [DFROUTER](/DFROUTER "wikilink")).

Another way to resolve ambiguity is to add route restrictions:

### Restricting generated routes

With the option , flow restriction for routes may be given. The input file takes the form

` `<FLOW1>` `<EDGE1>` `<EDGE2>` ... `<EDGEk>

This specifies the maximum flow for a route that consists of the given edges.

flowFromRoutes.py
=================

This script does the reverse of flowrouter.py and [DFROUTER](/DFROUTER "wikilink") in generating a traffic counts for detectors from a route or flow file. It can also be used to compare the input counts with the outputs of flowrouter.py and [DFROUTER](/DFROUTER "wikilink"). Example:

`/tools/detector/flowFromRoutes.py -d detectors.xml -r routes.xml -e flows.xml`