---
title: Z Changes from Version 0.12.3 to Version 0.13.0
permalink: /Z/Changes_from_Version_0.12.3_to_Version_0.13.0/
---

**Release Date: 13.07.2011**

We are using the change of the minor release number as an opportunity to clean up some things. The network format, option names, and XML element/attribute names were changed.

### Network Format

For the **network**, we try to rework it the way it happened the last times, too:

Networks generated by SUMO 0.12.x can still be loaded and you may find a script /tools/net/0123to0130.py which converts a network into the new format. All things marked as deprecated in version 0.12.x are now not functioning anymore. This means, you can not load networks generated by versions before 0.12.0. Networks generated by the current version can not be loaded into old SUMO versions.

-   Tags
    -   removed <span class="inlxml"><lanes></span> and <span class="inlxml"><logic></span> elements
    -   replaced <span class="inlxml"><succ></span> and <span class="inlxml"><succlane></span> elements by <span class="inlxml"><connection></span>. Dummy connections (*SUMO_NO_DESTINATION*) are no longer written.
    -   replaced <span class="inlxml"><row-logic></span> and <span class="inlxml"><logicitem></span> elements by <span class="inlxml"><request></span> (within <span class="inlxml"><junction></span> elements)
    -   renamed element <span class="inlxml">tl-logic</span> to <span class="inlxml">tlLogic</span>
    -   renamed element <span class="inlxml">district</span> to <span class="inlxml">taz</span>
    -   renamed element <span class="inlxml">dsource</span> to <span class="inlxml">tazSource</span>
    -   renamed element <span class="inlxml">dsink</span> to <span class="inlxml">tazSink</span>
-   Attributes
    -   renamed attribute <span class="inlxml">min_dur</span> to <span class="inlxml">minDur</span>
    -   renamed attribute <span class="inlxml">max_dur</span> to <span class="inlxml">maxDur</span>
    -   renamed attribute <span class="inlxml">maxspeed</span> to <span class="inlxml">speed</span>
    -   renamed attribute <span class="inlxml">linkno</span> to <span class="inlxml">linkIndex</span>
    -   removed attribute <span class="inlxml"><depart></span>
    -   added attribute <span class="inlxml"><index></span> to lanes
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml"><name></span> to edges
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml">spreadType</span> to edges
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml">shape</span> to edges
-   Values
    -   junctions with traffic light now have type <span class="inlxml">traffic_light</span> (as in plain-xml)
    -   renamed junction type <span class="inlxml">DEAD_END</span> to <span class="inlxml">dead_end</span>
    -   edge attribute <span class="inlxml">function</span> will no longer be written in the default case (<span class="inlxml">=normal</span>)
    -   edge attribute <span class="inlxml">type</span> will only be written if set
    -   junction attribute <span class="inlxml">shape</span> will only be written if set

### Further Input Format Changes

-   DFROUTER
    -   renamed element <span class="inlxml">detector_definition</span> to <span class="inlxml">detectorDefinition</span>
-   ROUTES
    -   attribute <span class="inlxml">length</span> in element <span class="inlxml">vType</span> was used to declare the length from one vehicles front bumper to the next vehicles front bumper. NOW it declares the actual physical length of the vehicle. Attribute <span class="inlxml">minGap</span> is used to declare the distance between front bumper of a vehicle and the back bumper of its leader in a traffic jam.
-   NETCONVERT
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml">name</span> to plain edge input. This is used for visualisation (Street name)
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml">endOffset</span> to plain edge input. This can be used to shorten the usable edge/lane length when stopping (i.e. in case of pedestrian crossings)
    -   added optional attribute <span class="inlxml">width</span> to plain edge input. This will be used for visualisation in future patches
    -   plain edge input now supports lane specific speeds
    -   plain edge input now supports edge-specific vehicle class restrictions (<span class="inlxml">allow</span>, <span class="inlxml">disallow</span>)
    -   replaced element <span class="inlxml">forceLength</span> by element <span class="inlxml">split</span> with altered functionality

### Option Names

Many options have been renamed to increase consistency and to hopefully make them easiert to understand and remember. All changes apply to options given via the command line as well as options declared via configuration files. The old options still work although some are now marked as deprecated.[br](/br "wikilink")

Call <APPLICATION>` --save-template `<filename>` --save-commented` to get a list of supported options including synonymes.

### Application-Specific Changes

-   Simulation
    -   removed emitters, now only normal route files are allowed
    -   renamed to
    -   renamed to
-   NETCONVERT
    -   now fully supports import of SUMO networks
-   TraCI
    -   removed the possibility to set and retrieve traffic lights by phase/brake/yellow-tuples (both, state 0x21 and program 0x25)
    -   completely removed old API
    -   solved tickets [ticket\#273 (consolidate speed and acceleration manipulation methods)](http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/sumo/ticket/273) and [ticket\#330 (Speed adaptation after receiving SLOWDOWN command not working.)](http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/sumo/ticket/330)
    -   introduced a way to decide whether safe velocity, maximum deceleration and maximum acceleration shall be considered when changing a vehicle's speed, see: [TraCI/Change_Vehicle_State](/TraCI/Change_Vehicle_State "wikilink"), speed mode (0xb3)
    -   added default “error” return values for teleported/not-yet-inserted vehicles
    -   All lengths are encoded as written in the specification. The correct code for reading length is:

`int length = readByte()`
`if length==0:`
` length = readInt()`

-   added [Contributed/SUMO Traffic Modeler](/Contributed/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink")
