---
title: Contributed SUMO Traffic Modeler
permalink: /Contributed/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler/
---

SUMO Traffic Modeler by Leontios Papaleontiou is a graphical application for setting up an activity-based demand. It is not longer developed by the original author, and as it has some interesting features, we included it into the release.

The tool is stored in a runnable .jar-file, you may simply double-click on it on Windows to start it - it requires Java 6 to be installed. [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink") is located in \\bin.

There is not much documentation on it. What worked for me was:

-   on the command line
    -   having a given road network, reimport it using [NETCONVERT](/NETCONVERT "wikilink") and save plain XML definitions using the option. Make sure the prefix of the plain files is the same as the network's name.
-   start the SUMO Traffic Modeler by double-clicking on it
-   generate a project
    -   choose File-&gt;New Project...
    -   navigate to the folder the network/plain network definitions are located in for both, the project's name and for the network description
    -   the network should appear
-   set-up demand
    -   click on “Traffic Layers” in the tree located on the right side of the window
    -   add some demand definitions (“Flow”, “Area Flow”, “Hotspot”)
    -   you may alter the demands using the dialog on the right, bottom side of the window
-   export the demand/simulation
    -   choose Simulation-&gt;Export...
    -   fill the dialog with some meaningful values

What you will obtain after those steps is a simulation configuration file. The files referenced within this configuration are not yet build. Even though [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink") has a menu for setting up the paths to [NETCONVERT](/NETCONVERT "wikilink") and [DUAROUTER](/DUAROUTER "wikilink"), both application are not executed automatically. Instead, you have to convert the trips generated by [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink") into routes by yourself on the command line. You may reuse the network you have used to set up [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink"), but you probably have to build it using the given edges/nodes files if you have pruned it during the work with [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink").

If you convert the trips generated by [SUMO Traffic Modeler](/SUMO_Traffic_Modeler "wikilink") into routes using [DUAROUTER](/DUAROUTER "wikilink"), you may get the error “No connection between '...' and '...' found.”. To ignore it, call [DUAROUTER](/DUAROUTER "wikilink") with .